# Cleaning the Braumeister {#cleaning-the-braumeister}

The Braumeister must be cleaned immediately after the brewing process. Avoid surface drying of wort and malt remnants, as this will significantly impair the cleaning process. All stainless steel components can be cleaned using a conventional detergent. Abrasive agents and sponges/brushes that cause scratching are not suitable. Ideally use a pipe cleaner thread to clean the heating coil. The pump and its internal drive ball should also be rinsed regularly. For this, simple turn the Braumeister upside down and loosen the screws, which should at all times only be hand tightened. The pump can be removed completely from the Braumeister by simply loosening the plug screws. When cleaning the brewing vessel ensure that no water spray or moisture comes into contact with the electrical components. The current supply must be disconnected for performing cleaning activities on the Braumeister. Before starting the brewing process, remove all dust and dirt from the Braumeister and all internal fittings by means of warm water. Also rinse the pump and lines by means of transfer pumping. Caution: If you allow the pump to run longer than a few seconds for cleaning, ensure that it is sufficiently vented to avoid dry running (switching the pump on and off several times provides good venting). Ensure that you include the malt pipe seal and drainage tap as well. Make sure that no detergent remnants whatsoever remain in the Braumeister, as these could have a negative impact on the foam stability of the beer. Please refer to the detailed cleaning instructions on page 27 (cleaning set available as an accessory).