## Purification {#purification}

After completion of the programmed brewing phases, another signal tone is emitted. This will also be acknowledged by pressing the _Select_ button. The pump switches off and you are prompted to start purifying Remove malt pipe. Purification means separating the crushed malt from the beer wort. Purifying with the Braumeister is a relatively easy, fast and clean exercise, compared to many other home brewing methods, and represents a central concept of the Braumeister. Remove the wing nut including hold-down bow. Place the drip bow on the edge of the brewing vessel and use the lifting bow to carefully and slowly remove the malt pipe from the brewing vessel. Suspend the malt pipe from the support bow on the lower support bolts to allow the beer wort to drop from the malt into the vessel. Loosen the last remaining extract by washing out the spent grains once more. This process is known as “sparging” (process not essential). This is called sparging and is performed by pouring water at 78°C (max 78°C – do not use boiling water) into the top of the malt pipe. Remove the upper filter plate including screen cloth and use a long wooden spoon to pierce the spent grain a little so as to allow the “trapped” beer wort to continue running off or draining. During the lautering process, the temperature remains constant at the pre-programmed temperature of 78°C. After 15 to 20 minutes of lautering, remove the malt pipe completely and discard the malt residue. For safety reasons, we recommend using heat-resistant gloves for this part of the process, as all components will have reached extremely high temperatures.

After removing the malt pipe, acknowledge it by pressing the _Select_ button. In order to start the hops boiling process, press the _Select_ button again. The pump and the heating switch on again and the automatic process continues.

Once the purification process is complete, the wort content should be checked. This is important for ensuring the required original wort content of the wort, so as to be able to adjust the subsequent alcohol content of the beer as well. Fill a graduated cylinder (accessory) and determine the wort level at the time of sampling. For this, use the upper three filling level rings on the tie rod to assist you (8/10/12 L or 15/20/25 L or 45/50/55 L). Estimate the levels between these markings correspondingly. For measuring the original wort using a beer spindle (accessory), first cool the wort sample to 20°C to ensure an exact measurement. In order to do this, cooling inside a refrigerator is recommended. However, as the original wort is proportional to a certain liquid level, you do not need to wait until you have performed the measurement. Simply continue with the next phase of the hops boiling process and subsequently correct or adjust the original wort.