## Maturation {#maturation}

During secondary fermentation or maturation, all sugars remaining from the main fermentation process and added sugars are fermented – causing the green beer to build up carbon dioxide, which is of significance for subsequent formation of foam, foam stability and freshness. The beer also matures to perfection as regards taste, and a natural clarity is achieved as well. As soon as fermentation is complete (no escaping of fermentation gases), the beer can be decanted. For this, prepare the following: Prepare the maturation vessel/bottles and bring in the cooled wort to room temperature.

The most ideal option available to you is secondary fermentation in bottles, which is also the preferred method by most hobby brewers. Additional options are various pressure-resistant containers such as special 5l tins or real beer vessels and pressure vessels. Here too, it is important to work under sterile conditions. All devices must therefore be thoroughly cleaned and disinfected prior to use. When using flip-top bottles, we recommend using the following method of bottle sterilisation: Rinse and clean the bottles thoroughly with warm water. Use a suitable disinfecting agent commonly applied for food preparation equipment. This preparation should take place during in the fermentation process or earlier. This will avoid any stress at the time when filling the bottles.

The defrosted wort is then added carefully to the green beer in the fermentation vessel 1-2 hours before bottling. This allows whirled up trub to settle again. Attach a pipe that reaches the base of the bottles to the drainage tap for bottling. In this way, you can avoid extreme frothing and ensure that loss of carbon dioxide is kept to a minimum. Fill the bottles 90-95% (fermentation space) and seal immediately. Also take care not to whirl up and decant the sediment in the fermentation vessel. After bottling, store the beer for 1-2 days at the same temperature as used in the main fermentation. Then store at a low temperature where possible. Important: During secondary fermentation, it is essential to check the bottles for excess pressure after approx. 12 hours and again in the first 2-3 days, and to briefly ventilate once where required, so as to avoid excess pressure from the CO2\. Store the bottles in an upright position so that any trub can settle on the base. This type of beer production results in naturally cloudy beer. In days gone by, nutritious beer was always naturally cloudy and is today also still preferable, as it contains valuable B vitamins bonded on the yeast cells. The first tasting can take place after a storage period of 2-4 weeks. Slightly longer storage periods result in an even more mature taste.

Your home-brewed beer is now ready. Serve cold and enjoy with your friends! Cheers!